## AIBMS
# Outline

AI Based Monitoring and Assistance is an AI based system whose main objective is to 
automate the attendance system using facial recognition technology i.e., developing a system to 
present an automated way to keep track of attendance which would reduce the present pen and 
paper based manual method of marking attendance. Replacing the traditional method, this system 
will save time, reduce the amount of work the teacher has to do and will replace the stationary 
material with a computer based system. After marking of attendance a data is generated by this 
system which would further used by this system to monitor or understand the working pattern of 
students and classify them on a particular level and provide required assistance to improve their 
performance. 
          The system is developed using Python, OpenCV and SQLite database. The 
proposed system uses Local Binary Patterns Histogram algorithm for facial recognition. The 
attendance is maintain in a excel sheet which is updated automatically.

# SYSTEM REQUIREMENT  
A. SOFTWARE 
OpenCV 
OpenCV (Open Source Computer Vision Library) is an open source 
computer vision and machine learning software library. 
Frontend  
 Python Tkinter 
BACKEND 
 SQLite 
B. HARDWARE 
Webcam or a camera with good resolution

# METHODOLOGY 
First the system capture the image of whole classroom by a camera. Then 
algorithm recognizes each faces in a captured image to a particular student and 
mark the attendance of recognize students automatically in database. At last to 
cross verify an excel sheet is generated by the system. So anyone can verify the 
marked attendance is correct or not. If any issues then again trigger the application 
for whole process.   
  
  
 
